# Enumerations (MetaTrader5SDK)

|  | [ Database Interfaces ](reference_bases.md "Database Interfaces") / [ Trade ](reference_trading.md "Trade") / [ Trade Requests ](trading_request.md "Trade Requests") / [ IMTExecution ](imtexecution.md "IMTExecution")/ Enumerations | [](imtexecution.md "IMTExecution") [](imtexecution_release.md "Release") |
| --- | --- | --- |
| --- | --- |

Enumerations
The IMTExecution class contains the following enumerations:
  * [IMTExecution::EnTradeExecutions](imtexecution_enum.htm#entradeexecutions)
  * [IMTExecution::EnFlags](imtexecution_enum.htm#enflags)

IMTExecution::EnTradeExecutions
Possible states of execution of trade orders are listed in IMTExecution::EnTradeExecutions. A list of required and optional fields is provided for each type of trade execution:
| ID number | Value | Description | Required Fields | Optional Fields |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TE_ORDER_FIRST |  | Beginning of enumeration of types of trade requests. It corresponds to TE_ORDER_NEW_REQUEST. |  |
| TE_ORDER_NEW_REQUEST | 0 | A notification that the process of adding a new order in an external trading system has been initiated. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") | [OrderActivationFlags](imtexecution_orderactivationflags.md "OrderActivationFlags") — if you need to specify activation flags. |
| TE_ORDER_NEW | 1 | A notification that a new order has been added in an external trading system. The order has been placed from MetaTrader 5. How it works: |

  * The client sends a request
  * An order in the 'Started' state is placed in MetaTrader 5
  * A notification is sent to the gateway
  * Once the corresponding request is added to the external system, the gateway should notify the platform through a trade execution: TE_ORDER_NEW in case the order has already been placed or TE_ORDER_NEW_REQUEST in case the order is still being added in an external system (should be followed by TE_ORDER_NEW execution once the order is actually placed).

If the [hedging](imtcongroup_enum.htm#enmarginmode) position accounting system is used, no additional actions apart from those used in the netting system are required, since all the required information in the order is specified when the client sends a trade request. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [OrderVolume](imtexecution_ordervolume.md "OrderVolume") | [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system. [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing.  
A notification that a new order has been added in an external trading system. The order has been placed not from MetaTrader 5: If the order is to open a position, when using the [hedging](imtcongroup_enum.htm#enmarginmode) system, no additional actions apart from those used in the netting system are required. If the order is to close a position, in the hedging system the gateway should fill the fields of [Position](imtexecution_position.md "Position") or [PositionExternalID](imtexecution_positionexternalid.md "PositionExternalID") (corresponding position tickets must exist). It it is a Close By order, it is necessary to specify the ticket of the position you want to close and the ticket of the opposite position:
  * [Position](imtexecution_position.md "Position") or [PositionExternalID](imtexecution_positionexternalid.md "PositionExternalID")
  * [PositionBy](imtexecution_positionby.md "PositionBy") or [PositionByExternalID](imtexecution_positionexternalid.md "PositionExternalID")

| [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [OrderPrice](imtexecution_orderprice.md "OrderPrice") [OrderVolume](imtexecution_ordervolume.md "OrderVolume") | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment") — if a comment is set. [OrderType](imtexecution_ordertype.md "OrderType") — if a type is set. [OrderTypeTime](imtexecution_ordertypetime.md "OrderTypeTime") — if an expiration type is set. [OrderTimeExpiration](imtexecution_ordertimeexpiration.md "OrderTimeExpiration") — if an expiration time is set. [OrderTypeFill](imtexecution_ordertypefill.md "OrderTypeFill") — if a filling type is set. [OrderPriceTrigger](imtexecution_orderpricetrigger.md "OrderPriceTrigger") — for stop limit orders. [OrderPriceTP](imtexecution_orderpricetp.md "OrderPriceTP") — if Take Profit level is set. [OrderPriceSL](imtexecution_orderpricesl.md "OrderPriceSL") — if Stop Loss level is set. [DatetimeMsc](imtexecution_datetimemsc.md "DatetimeMsc") — if specified, the entered time is set in an order, otherwise the current trading time is used.  
TE_ORDER_FILL | 2 | A notification that an order has been fully or partially filled in an external trading system has been initiated. If the [hedging](imtcongroup_enum.htm#enmarginmode) system is used, no additional actions apart from those used in the netting system are required. When closing the position, the system will use the data specified in the order being executed (including the ticket of the position). | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [DealAction](imtexecution_dealaction.md "DealAction") [DealVolume](imtexecution_dealvolume.md "DealVolume") [DealPrice](imtexecution_dealprice.md "DealPrice") | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [DatetimeMsc](imtexecution_datetimemsc.md "DatetimeMsc") — if specified, the entered time is set in an order, otherwise the current trading time is used. [DealVolumeRemaind](imtexecution_dealvolumeremaind.md "DealVolumeRemaind") — if only part of the order volume has been filled.  
TE_ORDER_REJECT | 3 | A notification that an order has been rejected in an external trading system. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment") — to specify reasons for order rejection. [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_ORDER_MODIFY_REQUEST | 4  | A notification that the process of changing an order in an external trading system has been initiated. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_ORDER_MODIFY | 5 | A notification that an order has been modified in an external trading system. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [OrderType](imtexecution_ordertype.md "OrderType") — set a new order type if the passed value is different from the current one | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed to the external system. [OrderActivationFlags](imtexecution_orderactivationflags.md "OrderActivationFlags") — if you need to change activation flags. [OrderActivationMode](imtexecution_orderactivationmode.md "OrderActivationMode") — if you need to change activation type. [OrderTypeTime](imtexecution_ordertypetime.md "OrderTypeTime") — if you need to change an expiration type. [OrderTimeExpiration](imtexecution_ordertimeexpiration.md "OrderTimeExpiration") — if you need to change an expiration time. [OrderTypeFill](imtexecution_ordertypefill.md "OrderTypeFill") — if you need to change fill type. [OrderPrice](imtexecution_orderprice.md "OrderPrice") — if you need to change an order price. [OrderPriceTrigger](imtexecution_orderpricetrigger.md "OrderPriceTrigger") — if you need to change an activation price of a stop-limit order. [OrderPriceTP](imtexecution_orderpricetp.md "OrderPriceTP") — if you need to change the Take Profit level. [OrderPriceSL](imtexecution_orderpricesl.md "OrderPriceSL") — if you need to change the Stop Loss level. [OrderVolume](imtexecution_ordervolume.md "OrderVolume") — if you need to change an order volume. [DatetimeMsc](imtexecution_datetimemsc.md "DatetimeMsc") — if specified, the entered time is set in an order, otherwise the current trading time is used.  
TE_ORDER_MODIFY_REJECT | 6 | A notification that order modification has been rejected in an external trading system. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment") — to specify reasons for rejection of the request to modify an order. [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_ORDER_CANCEL_REQUEST | 7 | A notification that the process of canceling an order in an external trading system has been initiated. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_ORDER_CANCEL | 8 | A notification that an order has been canceled in an external trading system. As a result of execution application, the order is transferred to the history in the "[IMTOrder::ORDER_STATE_CANCELED](imtorder_enum.htm#enorderstate)" state. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [DatetimeMsc](imtexecution_datetimemsc.md "DatetimeMsc") — if specified, the entered time is set in an order, otherwise the current trading time is used. [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_ORDER_CANCEL_REJECT | 9 | A notification that order cancellation has been rejected in an external trading system. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing.  [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment") — to specify reasons for rejection of the request to delete an order. [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_ORDER_CHANGE_ID | 10 | A notification about change of the order ID In the external system. Replaces the order ID [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") with the one passed in [DealExternalID](imtexecution_dealexternalid.md "DealExternalID"). | [DealExternalID](imtexecution_dealexternalid.md "DealExternalID") [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing.  [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_ORDER_CLOSE_BY | 11 | A notification of execution of the Close By order. Addition specification of the position ID is not required, because it is specified in the order. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment") — to specify reasons for rejection of the request to modify an order. [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_ORDER_EXPIRE | 12 | A notification that an order has been canceled in an external trading system due to expiration. As a result of execution application, the order is transferred to the history in the "[IMTOrder::ORDER_STATE_EXPIRED](imtorder_enum.htm#enorderstate)" state. | [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order") — if not specified, the server will try to find the order based on its [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Order](imtexecution_order.md "Order"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing. [DatetimeMsc](imtexecution_datetimemsc.md "DatetimeMsc") — if specified, the entered time is set in an order, otherwise the current trading time is used. [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_ORDER_LAST |  | End of enumeration of types of trade requests. |  |   
TE_DEAL_FIRST |  | Beginning of enumeration of notifications related to deals. |  |   
TE_DEAL_CANCEL | 50 | The trading platform notification of the cancellation of the previously conducted deal in an external trading system. The following actions are performed in the trading platform after the notification is sent:
  * the previously conducted buy or sell deal type is changed to IMTDeal::BUY_CANCELED or IMTDeal::SELL_CANCELED. The deal's profit/loss is set to zero;
  * positions on the client's account are recalculated;
  * profit/loss from the canceled deal is withdrawn/accrued by a separate balance transaction (IMTDeal::DEAL_BALANCE).

Deal cancellation does not entail a change in the order history. | [DealExternalID](imtexecution_dealexternalid.md "DealExternalID") |   
TE_DEAL_CORRECT | 51 | The trading platform notification of the price and/or volume correction of the previously conducted deal in an external trading system. The following actions are performed in the trading platform after the notification is sent:
  * the volume/price of the specified deal is corrected in history;
  * the client's position is recalculated;
  * if necessary, an appropriate profit/loss is withdrawn/accrued by a separate balance transaction (IMTDeal::DEAL_CORRECTION).

| [ExternalAccount](imtexecution_externalaccount.md "ExternalAccount") or [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") [DealExternalID](imtexecution_dealexternalid.md "DealExternalID") [DealPrice](imtexecution_dealprice.md "DealPrice") [DealVolume](imtexecution_dealvolume.md "DealVolume") | [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment")  
TE_DEAL_EXTERNAL | 52 | This execution type allows performing deals on client accounts without orders. This execution type can be used to implement technical deals performed by an external trading system on a specified client account. For example, that may be deals marking delivery under commitment. When performing deals of the IMTDeal::DEAL_REASON_SYNC type to synchronize the state of client's positions with an external system, you should take into account the following:
  * these deals are not subject to commissions, the IMTDeal::Commission field is ignored
  * profit is not calculated for these deals, therefore these deals do not change client's balance state while no profit is added

| [ExternalAccount](imtexecution_externalaccount.md "ExternalAccount") or [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") [DealExternalID](imtexecution_dealexternalid.md "DealExternalID") [DealAction](imtexecution_dealaction.md "DealAction") [DealPrice](imtexecution_dealprice.md "DealPrice") [DealVolume](imtexecution_dealvolume.md "DealVolume") [OrderPriceSL](imtexecution_orderpricesl.md "OrderPriceSL") (if any) [OrderPriceTP](imtexecution_orderpricetp.md "OrderPriceTP") (if any) | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing.  [PriceGateway](imtexecution_pricegateway.md "PriceGateway") [DealReason](imtexecution_dealreason.md "DealReason") [DealCommission](imtexecution_dealcommission.md "DealCommission") [DatetimeMsc](imtexecution_datetimemsc.md "DatetimeMsc") [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment")  
TE_DEAL_REPO | 53 | Execution for REPO trades. When such a transaction is received, the server generates an opening trade for the symbol specified in the transaction parameters. The first deal volume, price and ID are specified by [IMTExecution::Order*](imtexecution_order.md "Order"), values, while the second deal ones are set by [IMTExecution::Deal*](imtexecution_dealprice.md "DealPrice") values. As a result, the appropriate deals are recorded in the account history, while their execution results are reflected on the client's balance. | [ExternalAccount](imtexecution_externalaccount.md "ExternalAccount") or [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") [OrderExternalID](imtexecution_orderexternalid.md "OrderExternalID") [OrderVolume](imtexecution_ordervolume.md "OrderVolume") [OrderPrice](imtexecution_orderprice.md "OrderPrice") [DealExternalID](imtexecution_dealexternalid.md "DealExternalID") [DealPrice](imtexecution_dealprice.md "DealPrice") [DealVolume](imtexecution_dealvolume.md "DealVolume") | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing.   
TE_DEAL_COMMISSION | 54 | This execution type is used to change the commission value of an executed trade. After you change the commission, the client's balance is corrected and their margin state is updated. The commission value can only be changed for the trades executed within the last 24 hours. If you attempt to modify an oder deal, the server will return MT_RET_ERR_NOTFOUND. | [ExternalAccount](imtexecution_externalaccount.md "ExternalAccount") or [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") [DealCommission](imtexecution_dealcommission.md "DealCommission") — new commission value. [DealExternalID](imtexecution_dealexternalid.md "DealExternalID") — trade ID in the external system. | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing.   
TE_DEAL_LAST |  | End of enumeration of notifications related to deals. |  |   
TE_EOS_FIRST |  | Beginning of enumeration of operations associated with the closing of the trading session. |  |   
TE_EOS_CANCEL_DAILY_ORDERS | 100 | A notification that an intraday order ([IMTOrder::ORDER_TIME_DAY](imtorder_enum.htm#enordertime)) has been canceled in an external trading system. When generating this notification, the following fields must be filled in the trade execution object:
  * [IMTExecution::Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") — the symbol, for which orders are canceled.
  * [IMTExecution::Datetime](imtexecution_datetime.md "Datetime") — date and time that will be set for the order cancellation event.

This is a broadcast notification. Unlike, for example, notification of order addition (TE_ORDER_NEW), which is linked to a particular trade server in accordance with the login and ticket of a trade operation, these notifications are sent to all trade servers in a cluster. | [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [EOSSessionStart](imtexecution_eossessionstart.md "EOSSessionStart") [EOSSessionEnd](imtexecution_eossessionend.md "EOSSessionEnd") [DatetimeMsc](imtexecution_datetimemsc.md "DatetimeMsc") | [Group](imtexecution_group.md "Group") — if filled, the action is applied to a specified group or a group mask, otherwise it is applied to all groups available to the gateway. [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment")  
TE_EOS_VARIATION_MARGIN | 101 | A notification of the necessity to calculate the variation margin for open positions. In this case, open positions will be closed at the [clearing price](imtexecution_eospricesettlement.md "EOSPriceSettlement") and then re-opened at the same price. Thus the profit/loss received during a trading session is locked in. When generating this notification, the following fields must be filled in the trade execution object:
  * [IMTExecution::Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") — the symbol of the positions, for which the variation margin is calculated.
  * [IMTExecution::Datetime](imtexecution_datetime.md "Datetime") — date and time that will be set for the operations of position closing and re-opening.
  * [IMTExecution::EOSPriceSettlement](imtexecution_eospricesettlement.md "EOSPriceSettlement") — the price, at which the positions are closed and re-opened.

This is a broadcast notification. Unlike, for example, notification of order addition (TE_ORDER_NEW), which is linked to a particular trade server in accordance with the login and ticket of a trade operation, these notifications are sent to all trade servers in a cluster. | [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [EOSPriceSettlement](imtexecution_eospricesettlement.md "EOSPriceSettlement") [DatetimeMsc](imtexecution_datetimemsc.md "DatetimeMsc") | [Group](imtexecution_group.md "Group") — if filled, the action is applied to a specified group or a group mask, otherwise it is applied to all groups available to the gateway. [EOSSessionStart](imtexecution_eossessionstart.md "EOSSessionStart") and [EOSSessionEnd](imtexecution_eossessionend.md "EOSSessionEnd") — if specified, the accumulated fixed profit in the [IMTAccount::BlockedProfit](imtaccount_blockedprofit.md "BlockedProfit") field is unblocked.   
TE_EOS_RECALC_DEALS | 102 | A notification of the necessity to recalculate the returns of deals performed during the current session. An update recalculation rate is specified using the [IMTExecution::EOSProfitRate](imtexecution_eosprorfitrate.md "EOSProrfitRate") method. Also, recalculation can be performed using the updated tick price, which is set using the [IMTExecution::EOSTickValue](imtexecution_eostickvalue.md "EOSTickValue") method. When generating this notification, the following fields must be filled in the trade execution object:
  * [IMTExecution::Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") — the symbol of the deals, for which returns are recalculated.
  * [IMTExecution::EOSSessionStart](imtexecution_eossessionstart.md "EOSSessionStart") — the beginning of the session, for which recalculation should be performed.
  * [IMTExecution::EOSSessionEnd](imtexecution_eossessionend.md "EOSSessionEnd") — the end of the session, for which recalculation should be performed.
  * [IMTExecution::EOSProfitRate](imtexecution_eosprorfitrate.md "EOSProrfitRate") — profit/loss recalculation rates. When specifying rates, it is not necessary to specify EOSTickValue.
  * [IMTExecution::EOSTickValue](imtexecution_eostickvalue.md "EOSTickValue") — tick price for recalculation. When specifying the tick price, it is not necessary to specify EOSProfitRate.

This is a broadcast notification. Unlike, for example, notification of order addition (TE_ORDER_NEW), which is linked to a particular trade server in accordance with the login and ticket of a trade operation, these notifications are sent to all trade servers in a cluster. | [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [EOSSessionStart](imtexecution_eossessionstart.md "EOSSessionStart") [EOSSessionEnd](imtexecution_eossessionend.md "EOSSessionEnd") | [Group](imtexecution_group.md "Group") — if filled, the action is applied to a specified group or a group mask, otherwise it is applied to all groups available to the gateway. [IMTExecution::EOSTickValue](imtexecution_eostickvalue.md "EOSTickValue") — if a tick price was redefined. [IMTExecution::EOSProfitRate](imtexecution_eosprorfitrate.md "EOSProrfitRate") — if recalculation rates were redefined; should be specified pairwise: for buy and sell. [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment")  
TE_EOS_SETTLEMENT | 103 | Notification of a futures or option contract delivery date coming into effect. If this execution type is received, a trade server closes all positions (for the groups the gateway works for) for the symbol set in the [IMTExecution::Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") field. Positions are closed at the price specified in the [IMTExecution::EOSPriceSettlement](imtexecution_eospricesettlement.md "EOSPriceSettlement") field. The DEAL_REASON_SETTLEMENT reason is specified in the IMTDeal::Reason field of the deals used to close positions. | [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [EOSPriceSettlement](imtexecution_eospricesettlement.md "EOSPriceSettlement") | [Group](imtexecution_group.md "Group") — if filled, the action is applied to a specified group or a group mask, otherwise it is applied to all groups available to the gateway. [EOSSessionStart](imtexecution_eossessionstart.md "EOSSessionStart") and [EOSSessionEnd](imtexecution_eossessionend.md "EOSSessionEnd") — if specified, the accumulated fixed profit in the [IMTAccount::BlockedProfit](imtaccount_blockedprofit.md "BlockedProfit") field is unblocked.  
TE_EOS_TRANSFER | 104 | Notification of relocating a position with a calculated price to a new symbol with the same underlying asset. This mechanism is used to implement trading in T+N mode. For example, deals for Symbol-T+1 are performed on T+1 day. After the end of the trading session, all client positions at Symbol-T+1 should be relocated to Symbol-T+0 considering variation margin. To do this, trade execution of TE_EOS_TRANSFER type with the following parameters is sent from Gateway API:
  * [IMTExecution::Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") — symbol, from which positions should be relocated;
  * [IMTExecution::SymbolNew](imtexecution_symbolnew.md "SymbolNew") — symbol, to which positions should be relocated;
  * [IMTExecution::EOSPriceSettlement](imtexecution_eospricesettlement.md "EOSPriceSettlement") — calculated price, at which positions will be reopened.

| Position reopening deals are marked as the special IMTDeal::DEAL_REASON_TRANSFER type in client's trading history. | If [IMTExecution::EOSPriceSettlement](imtexecution_eospricesettlement.md "EOSPriceSettlement") calculated price is not specified in the trade execution, the original open price will be used to reopen positions. |
| --- | --- |

---  
[Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [SymbolNew](imtexecution_symbolnew.md "SymbolNew") [EOSPriceSettlement](imtexecution_eospricesettlement.md "EOSPriceSettlement") | [Group](imtexecution_group.md "Group") — if filled, the action is applied to a specified group or a group mask, otherwise it is applied to all groups available to the gateway. [EOSSessionStart](imtexecution_eossessionstart.md "EOSSessionStart") and [EOSSessionEnd](imtexecution_eossessionend.md "EOSSessionEnd") — if specified, the accumulated fixed profit in the [IMTAccount::BlockedProfit](imtaccount_blockedprofit.md "BlockedProfit") field is unblocked.  
TE_EOS_CANCEL_ALL_ORDERS |  | Notification of all active pending orders removal. | [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") [DatetimeMsc](imtexecution_datetimemsc.md "DatetimeMsc") | [Group](imtexecution_group.md "Group") — if filled, the action is applied to a specified group or a group mask, otherwise it is applied to all groups available to the gateway. [OrderType](imtexecution_ordertype.md "OrderType") — if filled, the action is applied to a specified type of orders, otherwise it is applied to all types of pending orders.  
TE_EOS_ROLLOVER |  | Notification of accruing rollovers for open positions.
  * A symbol the rollover is accrued for is specified in the [IMTExecution::Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") field.
  * Short and long position rollover values are specified in [IMTExecution::EOSRolloverValue](imtexecution_eosrollovervalue.md "EOSRolloverValue") in the client's deposit currency. These values ​​will be added to the current (existing) values ​​of position rollovers in the [IMTPosition::Storage](imtposition_storage.md "Storage") field.
  * If a zero volume is specified in the [IMTExecution::DealVolume](imtexecution_dealvolume.md "DealVolume") field, specified rollover values are accrued to the positions regardless of their volumes. If a non-zero value is specified in [IMTExecution::DealVolume](imtexecution_dealvolume.md "DealVolume"), the rollover is accrued proportionally: (Specified rollover * Position volume) / (IMTExecution::DealVolume). In other words, we define the volume the specified rollover is applied to. To minimize errors, it is recommended to set rollovers based on 1 lot.
  * The accuracy of the currency used for rollover accrual is set in the [IMTExecution::Digits](imtexecution_digits.md "Digits") field.
  * Rollovers can be accrued to a certain client or a client group. First, it is checked whether [IMTExecution::Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") or [IMTExecution::ExternalAccount](imtexecution_externalaccount.md "ExternalAccount") field is filled in the trade execution. If yes, the accrual is performed for a client with a specified login or account in an external system. If not, the [IMTExecution::Group](imtexecution_group.md "Group") field is checked. This is a field where a group or a mask for the groups, to which rollovers should be accrued, is specified.

| [Symbol](imtexecution_symbol.md "Symbol") — the symbol on which positions the rollover is charged. [DealVolume](imtexecution_dealvolume.md "DealVolume") — volume the specified rollover is accrued to. [Digits](imtexecution_digits.md "Digits") — accuracy of the currency used for rollover accrual.  | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — for accruing a rollover to a certain client. [ExternalAccount](imtexecution_externalaccount.md "ExternalAccount") — for accruing a rollover to a certain client. [Group](imtexecution_group.md "Group") — for accruing a rollover to a client group.  
TE_EOS_LAST |  | End of enumeration of operations associated with the closing of the trading session. |  |   
TE_BALANCE_FIRST |  | Beginning of enumeration of operations associated with clients' balance change. |  |   
TE_BALANCE_CHANGE | 150 | A notification that the client's balance has been changed in an external system. The client's balance change value is specified when generating this notification. [IMTConGateway::GATEWAY_FLAG_IMPORT_BALANCES](imtcongateway_enum.htm#engatewayflags) flag must be set for the gateway to use this type of trading execution. | [DealAction](imtexecution_dealaction.md "DealAction") [DealPrice](imtexecution_dealprice.md "DealPrice") — balance change of [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") or [ExternalAccount](imtexecution_externalaccount.md "ExternalAccount") | [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment") — to display comments on balance change  
TE_BALANCE_CORRECT | 151 | A notification that the client's balance has been changed in an external system. New client's balance value is specified when generating this notification. [IMTConGateway::GATEWAY_FLAG_IMPORT_BALANCES](imtcongateway_enum.htm#engatewayflags) flag must be set for the gateway to use this type of trading execution. | [DealAction](imtexecution_dealaction.md "DealAction") [DealPrice](imtexecution_dealprice.md "DealPrice") — new balance value of [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") or [ExternalAccount](imtexecution_externalaccount.md "ExternalAccount") | [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment") — to display comments on balance change  
TE_BALANCE_UNBLOCK_PROFIT | 152 | Notification to a trade server of the need to unblock the clients' collected daily profit. After receiving this execution type, the trade server deposits the profit collected during the day in the [IMTAccount::BlockedProfit](imtaccount_blockedprofit.md "BlockedProfit") field to the client's balance and clears the IMTAccount::BlockedProfit field. | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") or [ExternalAccount](imtexecution_externalaccount.md "ExternalAccount") |   
TE_BALANCE_LAST |  | End of enumeration of operations associated with clients' balance change. |  |   
TE_POSITION_FIRST | 200 | Beginning of enumeration of operations associated with clients' positions. |  |   
TE_POSITION_CHANGE_ID | 201 | A notification about change of the position ID In the external system. Replaces the position ID [PositionExternalID](imtexecution_positionbyexternalid.md "PositionByExternalID") with the one passed in the [DealExternalID](imtexecution_dealexternalid.md "DealExternalID") parameter. | [DealExternalID](imtexecution_dealexternalid.md "DealExternalID") [Position](imtexecution_position.md "Position") — if not specified, the server will try to find the position based on its [PositionExternalID](imtexecution_positionbyexternalid.md "PositionByExternalID"). However, it is strongly recommended to use [Position](imtexecution_position.md "Position"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing.  [PositionExternalID](imtexecution_positionexternalid.md "PositionExternalID") — if this parameter is passed by the system.  
TE_POSITION_CHANGE_SLTP | 202 | Notification about changes in the position Stop Loss and Take Profit levels. | [Position](imtexecution_position.md "Position") — if not specified, the server will try to find a position based on [PositionExternalID](imtexecution_positionbyexternalid.md "PositionByExternalID"); nevertheless, it is strongly recommended to use their[Position](imtexecution_position.md "Position"). | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing.  [PositionExternalID](imtexecution_positionexternalid.md "PositionExternalID") — if this parameter is provided by the system. [PositionPriceTP](imtexecution_positionpricetp.md "PositionPriceTP") — if you need to change the Take Profit level. [PositionPriceSL](imtexecution_positionpricesl.md "PositionPriceSL") — if you need to change a Stop Loss level. [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment") — to specify a comment for a position change  
TE_POSITION_CHANGE_SLTP_REJECT | 203 | Notification about rejected changes in the position's Stop Loss and Take Profit levels. | [Position](imtexecution_position.md "Position") — if not specified, the server tries to find a position by [PositionExternalID](imtexecution_positionbyexternalid.md "PositionByExternalID"), but using [Position](imtexecution_position.md "Position") is highly recommended. | [Login](imtexecution_login.md "Login") — if the value is known, it is recommended to specify it for faster processing.  [PositionExternalID](imtexecution_positionexternalid.md "PositionExternalID") — if this parameter is provided by the system. [Comment](imtexecution_comment.md "Comment") — to specify a comment to a position change rejection  
TE_POSITION_LAST |  | End of enumeration of operations associated with clients' positions. |  |   
TE_FIRST |  | Beginning of enumeration. It corresponds to TE_ORDER_FIRST. |  |   
TE_LAST |  | End of enumeration. Corresponds to TE_POSITION_LAST. |  |   
This enumeration is used in the [IMTExecution::Action](imtexecution_action.md "Action") method.
IMTExecution::EnFlags
IMTExecution::EnFlags lists additional trading execution flags.
| ID number | Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| --- | --- | --- |
| TE_FLAG_NONE | 0x00000000 | No flags. |
| TE_FLAG_BROADCAST | 0x00000001 | Trading execution refers to all trade servers in the cluster rather than to a specific one. Typically, trading executions are sent to a specific trade server: the platform determines the necessary one by an account number, operation ticket and other properties set in the trading execution. Enable this flag if execution should be sent to all servers. The flag has no practical use in the development of end gateways and is used only for internal purposes. |
| TE_FLAG_MARKUP | 0x00000002 | Indicates that the gateway has not performed price spreading according to the translation settings, and the trade server should do that on its own. By default, the gateway (Gateway API) spreads prices according to the translation settings. However, there may be situations when price spreading is impossible on the gateway side. One such example is considered in the [MetaTrader 5 Administrator documentation](https://support.metaquotes.net/en/docs/mt5/platform/administration/admin_gateways/gateway_translation#features). In this case, the TE_FLAG_MARKUP flag can be set in the execution so that price spreading is performed by the trade server. The flag has no practical use in the development of end gateways and is used only for internal purposes. |
| TE_FLAG_SETTLEMENT_COMMISSION | 0x00000004 | Indicates that commission should be applied to position closing deals during a settlement. Positions for the specified symbol are closed in the platform when performing a settlement (sending the IMTExecution::TE_EOS_SETTLEMENT trading execution by the gateway). Closing is done using the appropriate exit deals. Such deals are not charged by default. If the TE_FLAG_SETTLEMENT_COMMISSION flag is set when sending the TE_EOS_SETTLEMENT execution, the commission is charged as in regular trading according to the client group settings ([IMTConGroup::Commission*](imtcongroup_commissionadd.md "CommissionAdd")). |
| TE_FLAG_ALL |  | All flags are enabled. |

The enumeration is used in the [IMTExecution::Flags](imtexecution_flags.md "Flags") method.