# LicenseCheck (MetaTrader5SDK)

|  | [ Gateway API ](gatewayapi.md "Gateway API") / [ Main Interface ](imtgatewayapi.md "Main Interface") / [ Common Functions ](imtgatewayapi_common.md "Common Functions")/ LicenseCheck | [](imtgatewayapi_release.md "Release") [](imtgatewayapi_server.md "Server") |
| --- | --- | --- |
| --- | --- |

IMTGatewayAPI::LicenseCheck
Check the gateway/data feed usage license.
C++
MTAPIRES IMTGatewayAPI::LicenseCheck( MTLicenseCheck& check // Structure for verifying the license )  
---  
.NET
MTRetCode CIMTGatewayAPI.LicenseCheck( ref MTLicenseCheck check // Structure for verifying the license )  
---  
Parameters
check
[in] The reference to the [MTLicenseCheck](mtlicensecheck.md "MTLicenseCheck") structure intended for gateway/data feed usage module license verification.
Return Value
An indication of a successful verification is the [MT_RET_OK](retcodes_successful.md "Successful completion") response code. Otherwise, an error has occurred, which corresponds to the response code.
Note
The method can only be called after receiving the [IMTGatewaySink::OnGatewayStart](imtgatewaysink_ongatewaystart.md "OnGatewayStart") notification.
The method cannot be called from the [IMTGatewaySink::OnGatewayStart](imtgatewaysink_ongatewaystart.md "OnGatewayStart") and [IMTGatewaySink::OnGatewayConfig](imtgatewaysink_ongatewayconfig.md "OnGatewayConfig") handlers.
Working with licenses
MetaTrader 5 Gateway API allows to protect developments from unauthorized use. Protection is developed to allow to verify gateway/data feed usage authorization in the MetaTrader 5 platform license generated by the platform developer company [MetaQuotes Ltd.](https://www.metaquotes.net/ "MetaQuotes Software Corp. ")
The algorithm for working with the license is described below:
  * Gateway/data feed unique name is specified in the program code.
  * The module name must be sent to MetaQuotes Software Corp. to include it to the MetaTrader 5 platform licenses of the indicated companies.
  * The IMTGatewayAPI::LicenseCheck method is called, in which the filled [MTLicenseCheck](mtlicensecheck.md "MTLicenseCheck") structure is transferred as a parameter. The following fields must be filled in the structure:
    * name — a name of a previously determined module;
    * random — a random sequence up to 256 symbols long;
    * random_size — generated sequence size.
  * The IMTGatewayAPI::LicenseCheck method sends specified data to a server.
  * The server checks whether the use of the module with a specified name is allowed.
  * The server sends the MTLicenseCheck structure back with additionally filled fields:
    * retcode — [verification result code](reference_retcodes.md "Return Codes");
    * sign — answer code, name and random sequence digital signature. The server signs the data by its own private key;
    * sign_size — data size at the sign field.
  * The module signs the same data (retcode+name+random) by its public key and compares result with the sign received from the server. This is how received data identity verification is performed.

Special [CMTGatewayAPIFactory::LicenseCheck](cmtgatewayapifactory_licensecheck.md "LicenseCheck") method is provided in the Gateway API factory to ease the license verification. Main part of the license verification actions specified above are implemented in this method. While using the factory method, a programmer has only to transmit to it a pointer to the Gateway API and gateway/data feed module name.  
---  
Example
| //+---------------------------------+ // | Request Queue Processing | //+---------------------------------+ void CMTGatewayApp::OnDealerLock(const MTAPIRES retcode,const IMTRequest *request, const IMTUser *user,const IMTAccount *account, const IMTOrder *order,const IMTPosition *position) { //--- if(m_gateway) { //--- Checking the license when the first request is received if(m_requests_count=0) { //--- checking if((m_license_retcode=m_api_factory.LicenseCheck(m_gateway,L"FXBR5GWTTEST"))!=MT_RET_OK) ExtLogger.Out(MTLogAtt,L"No licence, running in demo mode [%i]",m_license_retcode); //--- Forward request for further processing and increase the request counter m_gateway->OnGatewayDealerLock(retcode,request); i++; } else { //--- Previous check result will be used for all further requests if(m_requests_count<=100) { m_gateway->OnGatewayDealerLock(retcode,request); i++; } //--- Without a license, use the demo mode, process only the first 100 requests if(m_license_retcode!=MT_RET_OK && m_requests_count>100) { ExtLogger.Out(MTLogAtt,L"Trial version is limited to 100 requests [%i]",m_license_retcode); retcode=MT_RET_ERROR; //--- Pass the request and an error to stop finish request processing m_gateway->OnGatewayDealerLock(retcode,request); } } } } //+---------------------------------+ |
| --- | --- | --- |

---