# LicenseCheck (MetaTrader5SDK)

|  | [ Manager API ](managerapi.md "Manager API") / [ Manager Interface ](imtmanagerapi.md "Manager Interface") / [ Common Functions ](imtmanagerapi_common.md "Common Functions")/ LicenseCheck | [](imtmanagerapi_release.md "Release") [](imtmanagerapi_passwordchange.md "PasswordChange") |
| --- | --- | --- |
| --- | --- |

IMTManagerAPI::LicenseCheck
Check the application license.
C++
MTAPIRES IMTManagerAPI::LicenseCheck( MTLicenseCheck& check // Reference to the license )  
---  
.NET
MTRetCode CIMTManagerAPI.LicenseCheck( ref MTLicenseCheck check // Reference to the license )  
---  
Parameters
check
[in] A reference to the [MTLicenseCheck](mtlicensecheck.md "MTLicenseCheck") structure that describes the license.
Return Value
An indication of successful completion is the [MT_RET_OK](retcodes_successful.md "Successful completion") response code. Otherwise, an error has occurred, which corresponds to the response code.
Note
License verification can only be performed after [connection to a server](imtmanagerapi_connect.md "Connect"), otherwise the method will return the [MT_RET_ERR_DATA](retcodes_common.md "Common errors") error.
Working with licenses
MetaTrader 5 Manager API allows the protection of applications from unauthorized use. Protection considers that the application use authorization is determined in the MetaTrader 5 platform license generated by the platform developer, [MetaQuotes Ltd.](https://www.metaquotes.net/ "MetaQuotes Ltd.")
The algorithm for working with the license is described below:
  * A unique application name is defined in the program code.
  * This name must be sent to MetaQuotes Software Corp. to include it to the MetaTrader 5 platform licenses of the indicated companies.
  * The IMTManagerAPI::LicenseCheck is called, to which the filled [MTLicenseCheck](mtlicensecheck.md "MTLicenseCheck") structure is passed as a parameter. The following fields should be filled out in the structure:
    * name — application name;
    * random — a random sequence of up to 256 characters;
    * random_size — the size of the generated sequence.
  * The IMTManagerAPI::LicenseCheck method sends the specified information to the server.
  * The server checks if the use of the application with the specified name is authorized in the license.
  * The server sends the MTLicenseCheck structure back with the following additional fields filled:
    * retcode — [verification result code](reference_retcodes.md "Return Codes");
    * sign — the digital signature of the response code, name and random sequence. The server signs the data with its own private key;
    * sign_size — data size in the sign field.
  * The application signs the same data (retcode+name+random) with its own public key and compares the result with the signature ('sign') received from the server. Thus, the authenticity of the received data is checked.

For easier license check, the Manager API factory provides a special [CMTManagerAPIFactory::LicenseCheckManager](cmtmanagerapifactory_licensecheckmanager.md "LicenseCheckManager") method. The main steps of the above license verification algorithm are already implemented in that method. When using the factory method, a programmer only needs to pass a pointer to the Manager API and the application name to it.  
---