# LicenseCheck (MetaTrader5SDK)

|  | [ Report API ](reportapi.md "Report API") / [ Main Interface of Reports ](imtreportapi.md "Main Report Interface") / [ Common Functions ](imtreportapi_common.md "Common Functions")/ LicenseCheck | [](imtreportapi_clear.md "Clear") [](imtreportapi_about.md "About") |
| --- | --- | --- |
| --- | --- |

IMTReportAPI::LicenseCheck
Check the module license.
MTAPIRES IMTReportAPI::LicenseCheck( LPCWSTR license_name // Name of the module )  
---  
Parameters
license_name
[in] Reports module name.
Return Value
An indication of successful completion is the [MT_RET_OK](retcodes_successful.md "Successful completion") response code. Otherwise, an error has occurred that corresponds to the response code.
Working with licenses
MetaTrader 5 Report API allows to protect developments from unauthorized use. Protection considers that the report module use authorization is determined in the MetaTrader 5 platform license generated by the platform developer [MetaQuotes Ltd.](https://www.metaquotes.net/ "MetaQuotes Software Corp. ")
The algorithm for working with the license is described below:
  * A unique name of the reports module is specified in the program code.
  * The module name must be sent to MetaQuotes Software Corp. to include it to the MetaTrader 5 platform licenses of the indicated companies.
  * The IMTReportAPI::LicencseCheck method is called, to which the previously specified module name is submitted as a parameter.
  * The IMTReportAPI::LicencseCheck method sends the module name to a server where the verification is made if the module can be used.
  * If the module use is allowed, the server sends back the [MT_RET_OK](retcodes_successful.md "Successful completion") answer code.
